
Chief Standing Bear Statue

This essay will focus on two buildings in the University of Nebraska-Lincoln area, the Love Library and Morrill Hall, and the Native Americans who inhabited the Lincoln area.

The two buildings that I have researched include the Love Library, which I took pictures inside, and the Morrill Hall, where Archie the Mammoth is located. Love Library, known as the Don L. Love Memorial Library, was completed around 1943 originally used as a living space for the Army Specialized Training Program. It was later opened for all students in the fall of 1945. It was designed to utilize the “divisional plan” system of library organization. (UNL Libraries, 2005). Morrill Hall, also known as Elephant Hall, serves as the present location of the museum of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. It was built in 1927 as a fire resistant alternative to the original museum on campus. The name was chosen after Charles Morrill who donated fossils to the museum and advocated for funding to help build it (UNL Libraries, 2005).

There were two Native American tribes that lived in the region that the University of Nebraska-Lincoln currently stands on: the Očhéthi Šakówiŋ, also known as the Sioux Tribe, and the Pawnee. For my research, I focus specifically on the Pawnees and their removal from these lands. The Pawnee presided over a large part of the Great Plains territory which included much of the middle portion of Nebraska, especially the present-day Lincoln area. The Pawnee used to have land holdings in Nebraska, but it shrunk as territory in which the non-Natives and the government controlled grew (Wishart, 1979). The Pawnee eventually were removed from Nebraska by the mid-1870s to live in a reservation in Oklahoma. Scholars have argued about the issue whether they left by their own volition or due to pressure from the Sioux Tribe (Svingen, 1992). As with our readings for this module, we must consider the ontologies and epistemologies of researching the Native American Pawnee. From research, it appears that the Pawnee were forcefully removed from their land due to the fact that their ancestorial remains were left behind. (Svingen, 1992). This work showcases research of the Pawnee’s reasons for removal but does not represent them.

The Love Library and the Morrill Hall stand as reminders that this land was taken from the Native Americans to help provide learning facilities for students. We must not forget that this is not our land, but instead it is the Pawnee’s land who were forcefully removed for the non-natives and the United States government.

(420 words)

Bibliography

Svingen, Orlan J. “The Pawnee of Nebraska: Twice Removed,” American Indian Culture and Research Journal 16, no. 2 (1992): 121-137

UNL Libraries, “Love Library.” UNL Historic Buildings – Love Library, 2005. https://historicbuildings.unl.edu/building.php?b=84.

UNL Libraries, “Morrill Hall.” UNL Historic Buildings – Morrill Hall, 2005. https://historicbuildings.unl.edu/building.php?b=33. Wishart, David J. “The Dispossession of the Pawnee.” Annals of the Association of American Geographers 69, no. 3 (1979): 382-401. Accessed October 22, 2020. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2562970.
